Now that we know what a digital asset is and how it's related to the blockchain,
it's important to step back and consider some important questions.
How do digital assets work?
To get the answer, we can look at a more specific question.
That question is how do computers understand the contents of a file,
and how do they present those files to people?
Once we understand how this communication happens,
we'll be ready to start incorporating these ideas into our blockchain applications.
Here, we'll specifically focus on one answer to
this question and it has to do with encoding and decoding.
Encoding and decoding is the process of producing and interpreting information.
It's used across many fields of study.
But in computer science,
its main focus is facilitating the sending and receiving of data.
It's the process of translating a message between human-readable data and raw data.
We encode information into raw data to allow
computers to send information in a format they understand.
Later, this information is decoded
into a format that people can understand and work with.
Next, let's look a little more specifically at encoding.
Encoding is the process of putting a sequence of characters like
text into a specialized format for efficient transmission or storage.
What's special about this is what it allows you to do.
Basically, the goal of encoding is to
help us send and receive messages between each other.
For example, when speaking to another person,
if you both know the same language,
you can just speak freely and understand each other.
Now, if instead of talking in person,
you put that message into a computer,
you're not just talking to that person anymore.
You're including computers in the conversation.
For that reason, they need to understand what you're talking about to send messages.
This is done using encoding.
There's a couple ways to encode data,
some of which you may have already heard before,
things like hexadecimal, Base64 and ASCII.
We'll cover each of these in more detail soon.
The point to keep in mind for now is that each of
these encoding schemes can take in information to encode it as raw data.
This raw data is what is then transmitted between computers.
One thing to note here is that you might remember the algorithms
used to generate private keys like SHA-256.
These algorithms are used for encryption,
which is different than encoding.
With encryption, you're trying to make a secret key in
a way that can't be reversed and only you have access to.
With encoding, you're simply trying to reformat something to make it easier to transmit.
Another thing to note is that encoding isn't really the same as compression either.
The goal of compression is to make file smaller.
With encoding, you actually can end up with a larger file,
but the important thing is that the speed at
which it can be read and transmitted is improved.
The steps on how to encode data are different
depending on how you would like to encode it.
We'll be encoding images using these ideas later in the lesson,
but first, let's look a little closer at decoding.
While encoding prepares files for efficient transmission or storage,
decoding does the exact opposite.
Decoding allows you to take encoded, raw,
unreadable files, and convert them back into a human-readable format.
You'll decode something anytime you want to present
information to someone in a way that they can understand and work with.
Using the same schemes like hexadecimal, Base64,
and ASCII, you can convert the raw data files back into the file type they started as.
The process of encoding and decoding is happening constantly.
When you upload a file to a website,
you've encoded data that will be decoded when someone needs to use it.
If you've ever used a service like Skype or Google Hangouts,
you're receiving a live stream of data that was encoded,
transferred over the Internet,
and decoded to present to you.
The end result is that the computers and
networks get to communicate in a format they use,
and you get to communicate using live video or whatever media you happen to be using.
So, that wraps up our basic overview of encoding versus decoding.
The idea here was just to clarify what these terms mean and their purpose.
Coming up, we'll look more specifically at certain types of encoding.